wcag clarifications may 2026 (#1995)
w3c/wai-website: pages/standards-guidelines/wcag/index.md

## WCAG 2.0, 2.1, 2.2 {#versions}

Web Content Accessibility Guidelines (WCAG) versions are stable, referenceable standards when they are published as a "W3C Recommendation" web standard.

> The first links below go to the latest publication. Each publicaton has a unqiue web address (URL) that includes the date in the URL. **The standard at a dated URL does not change.**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first links below go to the latest publication. Each publication has a unqiue web address (URL) that includes the date in the URL. **The standard at a dated URL does not change.**
```
Just caught a simple typo here.

I’m somewhat thrown by the phrasing of “The first links below go to the latest publication”, I think because it asks me to reconcile the plural “links” with the singular “publication”?

I also wonder if it might be useful to distinguish the latest publications using the term “canonical”? Just thinking out loud on that one since I know it might be jargon-y, but is often used in web contexts to note the preferred/intended version within a group of pages/versions.

Author: In the interest of quick updates now, let's leave that as a low priority consideration for later.

* [WCAG 2.0](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG20/) was published on 11 December 2008.

> * [WCAG 2.1](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/) was published on [5 June 2018 at https://www.w3.org/TR/2018/REC-WCAG21-20180605/](https://www.w3.org/TR/2018/REC-WCAG21-20180605/), and updates were published on 21 September 2023, 12 December 2024, and 6 May 2025.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [WCAG 2.1](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/) was published on [5 June 2018](https://www.w3.org/TR/2018/REC-WCAG21-20180605/), and updates were published on 21 September 2023, 12 December 2024, and 6 May 2025.
```

Not sure of the value of including the URL in the link text. If there is a reason, feel free to ignore this.

Author: Yeah, I specifically want to in this one case, since that URL is mentioned in formal documents elsehwere.

* **[WCAG 2.2](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG22/)** was published on 5 October 2023, and an update was published on [12 December 2024.

For more information on the updates, see the [WCAG 2 FAQ](/standards-guidelines/wcag/faq/).

The WCAG 2 requirements (success criteria) are the same in later versions. For example, the success criteria in WCAG 2.1 are not changed in WCAG 2.2. Later versions add new success criteria, and do not change existing success criteria. One exception is 4.1.1 Parsing noted below.

* WCAG 2.0 has 12 guidelines.
* WCAG 2.1 adds 1 guideline and 17 success criteria. They are introduced in [What's New in WCAG 2.1](/standards-guidelines/wcag/new-in-21/).
* WCAG 2.2 adds 9 success criteria. They are introduced in [What's New in WCAG 2.2](/standards-guidelines/wcag/new-in-22/).

> Any updates in related documents are intended to support backwards compatibility in practice. The main change is that in WCAG 2.2, one success criteria (4.1.1 Parsing) is obsolete. Notes added to WCAG 2.1 and WCAG 2.0 errata address this, as explained in [WCAG 2 FAQ, 4.1.1 Parsing](/standards-guidelines/wcag/faq/#parsing411). WCAG 2.2 also includes Notes about different languages; more information is in [WCAG 2 FAQ, internationalization](/standards-guidelines/wcag/faq/#i18n22).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Any updates in related documents are intended to support backwards compatibility in practice. The main change is that in WCAG 2.2, one success criterion (4.1.1 Parsing) is obsolete. Notes added to WCAG 2.1 and WCAG 2.0 errata address this, as explained in [WCAG 2 FAQ, 4.1.1 Parsing](/standards-guidelines/wcag/faq/#parsing411). WCAG 2.2 also includes Notes about different languages; more information is in [WCAG 2 FAQ, internationalization](/standards-guidelines/wcag/faq/#i18n22).
```

WCAG 2.0, WCAG 2.1, and WCAG 2.2 are all existing standards. WCAG 2.2 does not deprecate or supersede WCAG 2.1, and WCAG 2.1 does not deprecate or supersede WCAG 2.0. W3C encourages you to use the latest version of WCAG.

> WCAG 2.0, 2.1, and 2.2 are designed to be "backwards compatible", which means content that conforms to WCAG 2.2 also conforms to WCAG 2.1 and WCAG 2.0. If you want to meet all the versions, you can use the WCAG 2.2 resources and you do not need to bother looking at earlier versions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WCAG 2.0, 2.1, and 2.2 are designed to be backwards compatible, which means content that conforms to WCAG 2.2 also conforms to WCAG 2.1 and WCAG 2.0. If you want to meet all the versions, you can use the WCAG 2.2 resources and ignore earlier versions.
```

Are the scare quotes around “backwards compatible” important here?

Also, an admittedly strong 😅 suggestion to replace “do not need to bother looking at” with “ignore”.

Author: um... backwards compatible is jargony for some of the audience of this page. I'm inclined to leave them for that reason.

how about in between: "and you do not need to look at earlier versions"

> WCAG 2.0, 2.1, and 2.2 are designed to be "backwards compatible", which means content that conforms to WCAG 2.2 also conforms to WCAG 2.1 and WCAG 2.0. If you want to meet all the versions, you can use the WCAG 2.2 resources and you do not need to bother looking at earlier versions.

Author: ```suggestion
WCAG 2.0, 2.1, and 2.2 are designed to be "backwards compatible", which means content that conforms to WCAG 2.2 also conforms to WCAG 2.1 and WCAG 2.0. If you want to meet all the versions, you can use the WCAG 2.2 resources and you do not need to look at earlier versions.
```
